Ingredients for Garlic Butter Steak.
It really doesn’t get any easier than this and you don’t need much to make a lip-smacking good steak. We used 2 New York Strip Steaks (pictured below), each weighing 1 pound and 1 1/4″ thick. Keep in mind a thicker steak will take longer to cook through and a thinner steak will cook faster.

Well-marbled steaks will give you the juiciest results. Our favorite steaks to cook on a skillet are:

New York Steak



AD
How to Pan Sear Steaks:
Pat dry – use paper towels to pat the steaks dry to get a perfect sear and reduce oil splatter.
Season generously – just before cooking steaks, sprinkle both sides liberally with salt and pepper.
Preheat the pan on medium and brush with oil. Using just 1/2 Tbsp oil reduces splatter.
Sear steaks – add steaks and sear each side 3-4 minutes until a brown crust has formed then use tongs to turn steaks on their sides and sear edges (1 min per edge).
Add butter and aromatics – melt in butter with quartered garlic cloves and rosemary sprigs. Tilt pan to spoon garlic butter over steaks and cook to your desired doneness (see chart below).
Remove steak and rest 10 minutes before slicing against the grain.
Pro Tip: We prefer using a large cast-iron pan for best heat conduction, but a large heavy stainless steel pan will also work.


AD
Step by step photos how to season and sear a steak on a skillet

Steak Doneness Temperature Chart:
A steaks internal temperature continues to rise as it rests, so remove steaks from the pan about 5-10 degrees before reaching your desired doneness. Use this chart to determine steak doneness when testing with an instant-read thermometer. For example, if you desire a medium doneness steak, remove it from the pan at 145 degrees F and it should rise to 150-155˚F as it rests. The USDA recommends cooking steaks to at least 145 degrees. Read more beef safety tips here. Use the following steak temperature chart. These numbers reflect the final temperature after resting 10 minutes.


AD
Medium Rare (soft, dark pink inside): 145 degrees F
Medium (soft, some pink inside): 160 degrees F
Well Done (very firm, no pink inside): 170 degrees F
Slice of steak cooked to medium doneness 

Pro Tip: Check the temperature using an instant-read thermometer, inserting it horizontally into the side of the steak, so it penetrates the thickest part of the center of the steak (without touching the bone or fat portions).

Checking steak temperature inserting thermometer into side of steak


AD
What to Serve with Steaks:
Steak is so versatile but our favorite sides for making the perfect steak dinner are:

Roasted Asparagus or Roasted Brussels Sprouts
Creamy Mashed Potatoes
Oven-roasted Baby Red Potatoes.
Another classic steak pairing is Corn on the Cob.
Chimichurri Sauce is a quick way to add tons of flavor
Pro Tips for the Best Steak:
Preheat pan 5 minutes before adding steak for a great sear with good color and flavor.
Press steak down just as it hits the pan to ensure steak makes contact with the surface of the pan.
Loosely cover and rest steaks on a cutting board 10 minutes before slicing so they don’t dry out.
Don’t slice too thin, or the steak cools too quickly.
Slice steak against the grain and at an angle for a steakhouse presentation
Juicy steak topped with melted garlic butter and rosemary


AD
How to Buy and Store Beef:
We love buying larger packages of beef, which are often a better value in price per pound. Once we have our meal plan for the week figured out, we refrigerate what we plan to cook within 3-4 days and freeze the rest. To preserve the quality of our steaks, we vacuum seal since air is the enemy of food. If you don’t have a vacuum sealer, you can also use a freezer-safe zip bag and squeeze out as much air as possible before freezing. To reduce waste, follow these guidelines:

Refrigerate Steaks (at 40˚F) for 3-4 days from purchase date
Freeze Steaks for 6-12 months*
Refrigerate or freeze right after purchasing
Place in freezer bags removing as much air as possible, or vacuum seal.